Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about the need of
dynamic memory and dynamic memory allocation
So we have learned that using pointers we can
allocate memory dynamically at run time. Before getting started with
dynamic memory allocation let us first discuss about static memory
allocation
First let us declare an integer array to store five
student's age. Since we are declaring an array, it will be stored
in the stack memory section
Here we are deciding the array size at the
compilation time
Hence it is also called "Compile time memory allocation"
But if we need to store more student's age then
this allocated memory is not enough
We can't grow or shrink the memory during run time in
static allocation
So what we can do is every time a new
student comes we can change the array size manually
and run it again. but it is not a good
solution at all
So what will be the optimal solution for this? It
is definitely dynamic memory allocation.
Using pointers we can create dynamic memory at runtime
Dynamic memory will be stored in the heap memory section
so whenever memory is needed it can be allocated. That is
we can create dynamic memory based on our need. Here
If two students come, we can create the memory only
for two students
If more students come we can also resize the memory
If another three students come we can resize the
already allocated memory area. If the computation is done and
if we need the data no more then we can
also delete the dynamically allocated memory
C language provides the following functions to handle dynamic memory
To create memory we have malloc and calloc
To resize the memory
We have function realloc
To deallocate the memory
We have the function free
We will be discussing each of them in detail in
the coming videos
So that's all and thank you for watching this video